---
description: 'View Slide Show16 Photographs Credit Adela Sanz Fernández From Smartphones to Museum Walls By Rena Silverman Feb. 10, 2015 Feb. 10, 2015  16 Email Share Tweet S'
author: []
datePublished: '2015-11-24T21:35:42.293Z'
publisher:
  domain: lens.blogs.nytimes.com
  name: lens.blogs.nytimes.com
dateModified: '2015-11-24T21:25:19.174Z'
title: ''
sourcePath: _posts/2015-11-24-view-slide-show16-photographs-credit-adela-sanz-fernandez-fr.md
published: true
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
url: view-slide-show16-photographs-credit-adela-sanz-fernandez-fr/index.html
_context: 'http://schema.org'
_type: Article

---
View Slide Show16 Photographs Credit Adela Sanz Fernández From Smartphones to Museum Walls By Rena Silverman Feb. 10, 2015 Feb. 10, 2015 16 Email Share Tweet Save More How ahead of its time was the Photo League? Far enough to inspire hundreds of people to exhibit their Instagram images at "Mobile Photo Now," which is on display through March 22 at the Columbus Museum of Art in Ohio. The League came together in New York City during the 1930s to promote social and street photography with their hand-held cameras. So it's not too much a stretch to see how today's smartphones could be used similarly. It was a realization that became evident during the museum's 2012 "Radical Camera" exhibit of the League's groundbreaking work, which it mounted in conjunction with New York's Jewish Museum. "One of the things the Photo Leaguers did is during their time they went out and gave each other assignments on a Saturday," said Jennifer Poleon, who organized mobile photography initiatives, such as biweekly Photo Hunts --- a Photo League concept --- during that Columbus exhibition. "They gave themselves a word or a phrase and they would come back, develop the pictures and have a pop-up exhibition to go along with it. So we took that concept and modernized it." During that time, they received hundreds of submissions and had five small shows. Then in late 2013, Kevin Kuster, a former Playboy senior photo editor who helps head the \#JJ Community, noticed on his Instagram feed that the Columbus Museum of Art had participated in an Instameet. "I was like, wow, that is fabulous," he said. "Here is this major museum who gets it, that it's not just about hanging pictures on a wall, it's about engagement and it's about community." He approached the museum with the idea of producing a large-scale exhibition, which he said would be "the largest mobile photo exhibition in a major museum in United States history." They were in. While some professional photographers might grow nervous at the idea of Instagram users taking over a museum, Mr. Kuster said people should embrace it. "There is an amazing movement that's happening in photography," he said. "There are so many great and talented people who are finding their voice." To submit images, participants had to use the hashtag \#mobilephotonowcma in addition to the themed \#JJ hashtag. There were four themes spaced out over four weeks announced on the \#JJ community feed:  \#jj\_cma\_street, \#jj\_cma\_portrait, \#jj\_cma\_community and \#jj\_cma\_blackandwhite. Mr. Kuster and Josh Johnson sifted through some 45,000 and narrowed it to 650\. "The funny thing is, I'll be really honest with you, that's pretty standard," Mr. Kuster said. "We've got it down to a pretty consistent system." Those 650 images went to Tyler Cann, the associate curator of contemporary art at the Columbus Museum of Art and another independent curator. They made the final cut to what is now on exhibit: 320 images by 240 users, all of which are projected and 116 prints mounted on small boxes. Mr. Cann said it was like nothing he had ever curated before. Usually when he curates a group show, like "In \_\_\_We Trust: Art and Money," he seeks images that relate to a theme. This time he was presented with a range of images from which he assembled an exhibition. "It is a very different process for me in that we acted a bit more like a jury as much as curators," he said. Instagram users from all over the world flew in to see the opening, including Arash Akbari Sene (@Arashrimus) from Tehran, whose blue-toned photo of a boy looking through a bus window is on display (photo below). He shoots in Tehran, but this is the first time he has seen his work outside his country. He called his cellphone camera a "gift sent from above." Photo Tehran.Credit Arash Akbari Sene Eric Ward (@littlecoal) is a fourth-grade math and science teacher who drove down from Toledo, Ohio, to see his photo of five hammocks between trees. Mr. Ward had been participating in the \#JJ Community daily forums for a few years, but when he found out about the joint project with the Columbus Museum of Art, he jumped on board immediately. Recently one of his students asked him if he had heard of Instagram. When Mr. Ward said yes, he asked the student to guess how many followers he had. The student guessed two. Nope. He guessed again. Twelve. Nope. Mr. Ward finally said, "250." Pause. "Thousand." (Actually, he's a bit over 232,000.) "He was not going to believe it until I showed my phone," Mr. Ward said. The next day the student came in and said, "You better follow me back or I'm going to have to unfollow you!" "Mobile Photo Now" is on display at the Columbus Museum of Art through March 22\. The participating photographers featured in this slide show can be followed here: 2mitades, Littlecoal, Ovidio001, Patrickryanzero, Flaviaburjato, Instafraner, Mariasander\_, KontikyKontiky, Rdepaolo, Aconica, Maikamelinda, Esagramma, Csallquist, Bigmanjapan, Brianmkaiser and Itskyesnyder.